mintlify-docs/docs/clients/telegram.mdx, before:

---
title: Telegram Integration
description: 'Chat with Lemon from your phone or desktop via Telegram'
---

The easiest way to use Lemon day-to-day is through Telegram. You talk to a bot from your phone or desktop while Lemon runs locally on your machine.

## Setup

### 1. Create a Bot

1. In Telegram, message [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather)
2. Run `/newbot`
3. Follow the prompts to name your bot
4. Copy the bot token it gives you (looks like `123456:ABC-DEF...`)

If you plan to use Lemon in a group chat, also set bot privacy appropriately:
- Message @BotFather
- Run `/setprivacy`
- Choose your bot
- Select `Disable` so the bot can see all messages

### 2. Get Your Chat ID

**Using the Telegram Bot API (no third-party bots):**

Send any message to your new bot, then fetch updates:

```bash
export LEMON_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN="123456:token"
curl -s "https://api.telegram.org/bot${LEMON_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}/getUpdates" | python3 -m json.tool
```

Look for `message.chat.id`. For groups/supergroups this is usually a negative number.

**Using a bot (fastest):**

1. Search for `@RawDataBot` or `@userinfobot` in Telegram
2. Start the chat and it will return your numerical ID
3. For group IDs, add the bot to the group and it will display the chat ID

### 3. Configure Lemon

Add to `~/.lemon/config.toml`:

```toml
[gateway]
enable_telegram = true
auto_resume = true
default_engine = "lemon"
default_cwd = "~/"

[gateway.telegram]
bot_token = "123456:your-bot-token"
allowed_chat_ids = [123456789]
deny_unbound_chats = true
drop_pending_updates = true
allow_queue_override = true
```

**Important:**
- Restrict who can use the bot by setting `allowed_chat_ids`
- Enable `deny_unbound_chats` to prevent unauthorized access
- `drop_pending_updates` prevents replies to old messages

### 4. Run the Gateway

```bash
./bin/lemon-gateway
```

The gateway starts the Telegram runtime (router + gateway + channels) without booting every umbrella app.

## Commands

### Session Management

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/new` | Start a new session |
| `/new <project_id\|path>` | Start session bound to a project |
| `/resume` | List previous sessions |
| `/resume <number>` | Resume a session by number |
| `/resume <engine_token>` | Resume with a specific token |
| `/cancel` | Cancel a running run |

### Engine Override

Put these at the start of a message:

| Command | Engine |
|---------|--------|
| `/lemon` | Native Lemon engine |
| `/claude` | Claude CLI |
| `/codex` | Codex CLI |
| `/opencode` | OpenCode CLI |
| `/pi` | Pi CLI |

### Queue Mode Override

| Command | Mode |
|---------|------|
| `/steer` | Steering mode |
| `/followup` | Follow-up mode |
| `/interrupt` | Interrupt mode |

### Canceling Runs

Reply to the bot's "Running..." message with `/cancel` to abort the operation.

In a DM, you can also just send `/cancel`.

## Project Binding

Bind a chat to a specific project:

```toml
[gateway.projects.myrepo]
root = "/path/to/myrepo"
default_engine = "lemon"

[[gateway.bindings]]
transport = "telegram"
chat_id = 123456789
project = "myrepo"
agent_id = "default"
```

Now when you chat, Lemon will operate in that project directory.

## Approvals

When a tool needs approval, Telegram shows inline buttons:

- **Once** — Approve this execution only
- **Session** — Approve for this session
- **Agent** — Approve for this agent
- **Global** — Approve for all future executions
- **Deny** — Reject this execution

## Troubleshooting

### Bot not responding

1. Check that `allowed_chat_ids` includes your chat ID
2. Verify the bot token is correct
3. Check gateway logs for errors

### Messages not being received

1. If in a group, ensure bot privacy is disabled via @BotFather
2. Check that `deny_unbound_chats` isn't blocking you

### Can't find chat ID

1. Send a message to your bot
2. Run the curl command to get updates
3. Look for `message.chat.id` in the response

Commit message:

docs(telegram): document /model picker command and scope options

mintlify-docs/docs/clients/telegram.mdx, after:

---
title: Telegram Integration
description: 'Chat with Lemon from your phone or desktop via Telegram'
---

The easiest way to use Lemon day-to-day is through Telegram. You talk to a bot from your phone or desktop while Lemon runs locally on your machine.

## Setup

### 1. Create a Bot

1. In Telegram, message [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather)
2. Run `/newbot`
3. Follow the prompts to name your bot
4. Copy the bot token it gives you (looks like `123456:ABC-DEF...`)

If you plan to use Lemon in a group chat, also set bot privacy appropriately:
- Message @BotFather
- Run `/setprivacy`
- Choose your bot
- Select `Disable` so the bot can see all messages

### 2. Get Your Chat ID

**Using the Telegram Bot API (no third-party bots):**

Send any message to your new bot, then fetch updates:

```bash
export LEMON_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN="123456:token"
curl -s "https://api.telegram.org/bot${LEMON_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}/getUpdates" | python3 -m json.tool
```

Look for `message.chat.id`. For groups/supergroups this is usually a negative number.

**Using a bot (fastest):**

1. Search for `@RawDataBot` or `@userinfobot` in Telegram
2. Start the chat and it will return your numerical ID
3. For group IDs, add the bot to the group and it will display the chat ID

### 3. Configure Lemon

Add to `~/.lemon/config.toml`:

```toml
[gateway]
enable_telegram = true
auto_resume = true
default_engine = "lemon"
default_cwd = "~/"

[gateway.telegram]
bot_token = "123456:your-bot-token"
allowed_chat_ids = [123456789]
deny_unbound_chats = true
drop_pending_updates = true
allow_queue_override = true
```

**Important:**
- Restrict who can use the bot by setting `allowed_chat_ids`
- Enable `deny_unbound_chats` to prevent unauthorized access
- `drop_pending_updates` prevents replies to old messages

### 4. Run the Gateway

```bash
./bin/lemon-gateway
```

The gateway starts the Telegram runtime (router + gateway + channels) without booting every umbrella app.

## Commands

### Session Management

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/new` | Start a new session |
| `/new <project_id\|path>` | Start session bound to a project |
| `/resume` | List previous sessions |
| `/resume <number>` | Resume a session by number |
| `/resume <engine_token>` | Resume with a specific token |
| `/model` | Open model picker (provider/model + scope) |
| `/cancel` | Cancel a running run |

### Engine Override

Put these at the start of a message:

| Command | Engine |
|---------|--------|
| `/lemon` | Native Lemon engine |
| `/claude` | Claude CLI |
| `/codex` | Codex CLI |
| `/opencode` | OpenCode CLI |
| `/pi` | Pi CLI |

### Model Picker

Run `/model` to open an inline button picker:

- Pick a provider
- Pick a model
- Apply scope:
  - `This session`
  - `All future sessions` (for the current chat/topic)

### Queue Mode Override

| Command | Mode |
|---------|------|
| `/steer` | Steering mode |
| `/followup` | Follow-up mode |
| `/interrupt` | Interrupt mode |

### Canceling Runs

Reply to the bot's "Running..." message with `/cancel` to abort the operation.

In a DM, you can also just send `/cancel`.

## Project Binding

Bind a chat to a specific project:

```toml
[gateway.projects.myrepo]
root = "/path/to/myrepo"
default_engine = "lemon"

[[gateway.bindings]]
transport = "telegram"
chat_id = 123456789
project = "myrepo"
agent_id = "default"
```

Now when you chat, Lemon will operate in that project directory.

## Approvals

When a tool needs approval, Telegram shows inline buttons:

- **Once** — Approve this execution only
- **Session** — Approve for this session
- **Agent** — Approve for this agent
- **Global** — Approve for all future executions
- **Deny** — Reject this execution

## Troubleshooting

### Bot not responding

1. Check that `allowed_chat_ids` includes your chat ID
2. Verify the bot token is correct
3. Check gateway logs for errors

### Messages not being received

1. If in a group, ensure bot privacy is disabled via @BotFather
2. Check that `deny_unbound_chats` isn't blocking you

### Can't find chat ID

1. Send a message to your bot
2. Run the curl command to get updates
3. Look for `message.chat.id` in the response
